20260621 update (#128)
Xahau/xahau-web: src/content/docs/docs/features/network-features/balance-rewards.mdx

<LinkCard title="GenesisMint - (Emitted Txn)" href="/docs/protocol-reference/transactions/transaction-types/genesismint-emitted-txn" />

### IOU Reward Claim

_(Requires the [IOURewardClaim amendment](/docs/features/amendments/#iourewardclaim).)_

The `IOURewardClaim` amendment extends the reward mechanic to IOU currencies issued by any account. The same area-under-the-curve calculation (hold time × hold amount) that governs XAH genesis rewards is applied to IOU token holders, with the issuer's Hook controlling payout logic.

#### How it works

1. **Opt-in**: A token holder submits a `ClaimReward` transaction with the `ClaimCurrency` field specifying the IOU. This initialises reward-tracking counters (`LowReward` or `HighReward`) directly on the trustline ([RippleState](/docs/protocol-reference/ledger-data/ledger-objects-types/ripple-state) ledger object).
2. **Accumulation**: After every transaction that modifies the trustline balance, the ledger automatically updates the `TrustLineRewardAccumulator` field. This tracks the cumulative product of balance × ledgers elapsed since the last reset.

> 3. **Claim**: When the holder submits another `ClaimReward` with `ClaimCurrency`, the ledger resets the counters and fires the issuer's Hook (which must be installed and must fire on `ttCLAIM_REWARD`). The Hook reads the accumulated value and emits a reward payment in whatever form the issuer chooses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. **Claim**: When the holder submits another `ClaimReward` with `ClaimCurrency`, the ledger resets the counters and fires the issuer's Hook (which must be installed and must fire on `ClaimReward` transaction). The Hook reads the accumulated value and emits a reward payment in whatever form the issuer chooses.
```

Author: Updated

#### Key differences from XAH genesis rewards

| | XAH Genesis Rewards | IOU Rewards |
|---|---|---|
| Amendment | `BalanceRewards` | `IOURewardClaim` |
| Counters stored on | AccountRoot | RippleState (trustline) |
| Accumulator type | UInt64 (drops / 1,000,000) | Amount (in the token's units) |
| Payout handled by | Genesis account Hook | Issuer account Hook |

> | Issuer restriction | Must be genesis account | Any account with a Hook on `ttCLAIM_REWARD`, except AMM accounts |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Issuer restriction | Must be genesis account | Any account with a Hook on `ClaimReward` transaction, except AMM accounts |
```

Author: Updated
